hey how's it going guys this is Dave -
Dee and this is my review of the GL 5/5
- so this is like the smaller 15-inch
version of the GL 75 - I did a review of
that a few weeks ago but I want to share
my thoughts about this one as well let's
do it
it's got similar packaging to its
17-inch brother it's got a Redbox laptop
inside AC adapter and then the standard
a C's pamphlets cord ties and a cleaning
cloth the top surface comes in two
finishes again a plastic finish and then
the metal finish that I have here which
is really nice and it doesn't show
fingerprints too readily the bottom
surface is made of plastic and you can
see that there's some air intake slots
and then the exhaust vent on the side
there isn't a subwoofer on this one like
the bigger 17 inch version and the
battery is removable you slide some
switches and then it can come out and I
haven't actually used a laptop with a
swappable battery in a very long time
this is like old-school cool and then
there's that easy access hatch again you
can remove a couple of screws and you
can pop that hatch off to gain access to
the RAM slots the SATA Drive socket and
a PCIe MT socket all three of these are
removable replaceable and obviously
upgradable the screenflex is minimal
there's less flex on this laptop than
most 15-inch gaming laptops at this
price range and it's probably because of
that aluminum shell build quality
overall is pretty good there's minimal
flex on the keyboard chassis area and
the hinge feels really well built as
well there's a lot of plastic on this
device but that's just the nature of the
ROG laptops from ACS there's a lot of
plastic but it's a good build it's a
little smaller than GL 75 - in all
dimensions but it has almost identical
specs and performance it's just a
difference in form factor the ports on
the 5 v 2 are a little different so on
the Left we have the power connection
exhaust vent a USB 3.1 type C HDMI port
Ethernet jack and a pair of USB 3 ports
and on the right we have audio jacks a
USB 2 port and the DVD drive the front
of the device has that SD card socket
which goes on pretty deep and there's
some light up status indicators the red
ROG logo on the lid also lights up from
the
back light again this review unit is
running a 2.6 gigahertz skylake i7 a 15
inch 1080p non-touchscreen a gtx 960m
that's 16 gigs of ram a one terabyte
hard drive and a DVD drive and all this
for around $1,000 us the keyboard and
trackpad are identical to the GL 7 v 2
it's a pretty good keyboard once you get
used to the number pad shifting the
keyboard over to the left the key travel
is nice and the backlighting is that ROG
read the trackpad though isn't great
I've mentioned this in the GL 7 v 2
review basically the trackpad skips a
lot more than I'd like it's not the
worst trackpad out there but I'd
recommend a mouse for gaming anyways the
screen is a 15 inch 1080p panel the
color gamut brightness contrast and
viewing angles everything across the
board is OK it's a pretty average screen
for a laptop in this price range the 17
inch screen on the GL 7 v 2 I felt was
slightly better but the one here is
still decent it's not the best for a
color accurate work but it's good for
gaming
it's a 7200 rpm Drive so it's very
usable for gaming but if you want a
faster experience
I totally upgrade to an SSD the gaming
performance is solid it's a 960 M so
most modern games will run pretty well
you'll stay above 60 frames per second
in light to medium games even with
everything turned up and these new
Nvidia drivers really helped with the
rainbow 6 frame rates but something
heavy like witcher 3 you're going to
need some run on lower resolution to be
really smooth because at 1080p even with
everything turned down i was only
getting around 35 frames per second it's
still playable it's just not very smooth
now a quick note on battery life it's a
small 48 watt hour battery mostly
because that DVD drive took up all the
space and it's got the same size battery
as the 17-inch version which is little
weird but we're getting better battery
life than the 17-inch version because
we're powering a smaller screen so on
regular use I was getting a little bit
less than three-and-a-half hours of use
with the screen at 75% brightness and
when I was playing games on battery I
was getting just shy of an hour and a
half with screen at max brightness the
speakers are top facing the sound good
and they get pretty loud and they
actually sound very similar to the ones
on the 75 tube but just with a little
bit less bass fan noise is reasonably
quiet when it's idling so mechanical
drives aren't completely silent it's
around 25 decibels on idle but with fans
at full tilt it hits around mid to high
30s the thermals are very similar to the
bigger 17-inch version it just breaks
100 Fahrenheit at max temperature
so overall the GL 5 v 2 has pretty good
build quality with an aluminum top and
plastic everywhere else the 15 inch
screen is decent it's good for gaming
but not ideal for color accurate work
speakers are pretty good the keyboard is
comfortable despite that number pad
shift and the trackpad is the same as
the GL 75 - not the best on the inside
we have a skylight i7 and a GT 960m
which are very capable for handling most
modern games a DVD Drive that takes up a
lot of space in a 15 inch footprint 16
gigs of upgradable RAM 2 physical
storage drives which is great for a game
recording or video editing and lastly
there is a small 48 watt hour battery
that lasts about three and a half hours
of regular use there's quite a few
15-inch gaming laptops in that $1000
price range and that's really great for
the consumer right there's a lot of good
options to choose from but what
separates this from the others two
things come to mind first is that DVD
Drive it's not something I would use
personally because all my games are on
Steam or battlenet but if you have like
a big disk-based collection there's very
few laptops or gaming laptops right now
that have a disk drive anymore so this
is one of very few options for you the
second is that removable battery again
it's not something I would use but if
you're interested in the ability to kind
of swap out batteries as you go and if
you want to travel and just want to
bring several battery packs with you
this is once again one of very few
options but even if you're not
interested in either of these like bonus
features this is actually a really good
laptop for its price that's the end of
this review hope you guys liked it
thumbs if you liked it subs have you
loved it it's been nice I'll see you
guys next time